
[*HOME*](https://nassir1976.github.io/reading-notes/)
## Readnote-08

### Reading: Access Control (ACL)

### Review, Research, and Discussion
1-When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?

- Bearer authentication (also called token authentication) has security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources:

- Basic authentication transmits credentials as user ID/password pairs, encoded using base64. The client sends HTTP requests with the Authorization
header that contains the word Basic word followed by a space and a base64-encoded string username:password.

- The basis Auth allow you to access the API directly with your credential : user/password.

- For instance, in Postman when calling the API choose "Basic Auth" and fill-in the user password. The information will be encoded with Base64 to avoid to be readable when sent.

 ### Bearer Token
 To access the API with a bearer token you will need to make 2 call :

- one to get the bearer token
- one to get the data

2-What does the JSON Web Token package do? -JSON Web Token is a standard used to create access tokens for an application. It works this way: the server generates a token that certifies the user identity, and sends it to the client.

3-What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?

- Never store unencrypted secrets in .git repositories. Avoid git add * commands on git. Add sensitive files in .gitignore. Don't rely on code reviews to discover secrets. ...
- Don't share your secrets unencrypted in messaging systems like slack.
Store secrets safely.
- Restrict API access and permissions.
 ### Document the following Vocabulary Terms
 ### encryption
- Encryption is a process that encodes a message or file so that it can be only be read by certain people. Encryption uses an algorithm to scramble, or encrypt, data and then uses a key for the receiving party to unscramble, or decrypt, the information
### token
- These tokens are the reserved words, identifiers, literals, and punctuators of the ECMAScript language.
 ### )bearer
- The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources: secret JSON Web Token

- SON web token (JWT), pronounced "jot", is an open standard that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. Again, JWT is a standard, meaning that all JWTs are tokens, but not all tokens are JWTs.

source :https://auth0.com/docs/tokens/json-web-tokens (Links to an external site.)

